Hi everyone! In this video I'm going to show you how to use the ATLA religion database.
This is one of the most important research tools for students studying theology, ministry,
biblical studies, church history, or religion. If you've been assigned a research paper that
requires scholarly peer-reviewed resources in religion, ATLA is usually one of the best
places to start. So let's walk through how to use it effectively. First, for accessing
ATLA, what you're going to want to do is go to the library homepage. That's library.norscentral.edu
and we're going to click on this first bubble that says library databases. From there you can
either browse alphabetically, so A for ATLA, or you can type in ATLA religion database. I just know
that it's at the bottom here, so I'm just going to click on that. If you're off campus, you might be
prompted to log in with your NCU credentials. Once you're in, you'll see this main ATLA search
page. On this main page, you'll see a search box. You can begin by typing keywords related to your
topic. ATLA also has a fantastic scripture search feature, so if you are looking specifically into
Genesis, let's say, you can click over on the far left-hand column all the way down at the bottom.
It says atlas scripture search. Click on Genesis. We're just going to go with Genesis chapter one,
verse one, and then we're going to add that to our search. And now as we start searching,
it will look for Genesis 1.1. So for example, you can search up Pauline theology, spiritual formation,
Pentecostal ecclesiology, or women in ministry, but I'm just going to use Pauline theology as
an example. You can also filter. There are some great filtering options. These results are going
to automatically include scholarly journal articles, essays, and sometimes book reviews, but
if you want just full-text journal articles, you can do that here. As you scroll down, you can click
on full text, peer-reviewed, and open access if you want. You can also filter by the journal type. If
you know the journal type and I'm going to filter by the last five years, you can also filter by
language if you keep getting results in a different language or if you only want results in, let's say,
Greek, then you can do that as well. So once these results appear, they have already been filtered,
but we can add more filters if we want. So if you go up here to the all filters section,
you can continue filtering in this right hand column that appears. If your professor requires
peer-reviewed sources, be sure to check that filter. Filtering allows you to narrow down
hundreds of results to the most relevant and academically appropriate sources.
Just a quick note, not all results in ATLA will automatically show full text. If you see a PDF
or an HTML full text link, you can click directly to read that or download the article.
If you don't see full text immediately, look for a link that says something like
find full text or check for availability. This will check whether NCU has access through another
database. If the article is not available, you can use interlibrary loan to request it,
and articles are usually delivered electronically within a few days. So all of these that appear
right now look like they are accessible, but if this were to say interlibrary loan,
then you can click that and interlibrary loan it. If you want more precise results,
you can click on advanced search. Here you can search for exact phrasing using quotation marks.
You can use boolean terms like and, or, and not in order to filter your search,
and you can also search by author or limit by specific journals as well. So for example,
if you wanted everything on Pentecostal theology and mission, we would put Pentecostal theology
in this first box, and we'll see this now has a boolean operator in it. We're going to select
and, and we're going to put mission in that box. Now when I hit search, it's going to pull up
everything that includes Pentecostal theology in the article or in the resource and the word
mission. This narrows your results to articles that include both concepts and advanced search
is especially helpful for upper level research papers. So we'll see here that it has provided
me with eight results. When you click on an article title, you'll see detailed information,
including the abstract. You'll also usually see options to download the article, email it to
yourself or save it to a folder and to view citation tools. Always double check automatically
generated citations for accuracy, especially for formatting. So if we click on this site function
here, here is the APA seventh style citation. If we want to export the citation, let's say to a
citation manager such as Zotero, you would just click on export in RIS format in order to upload
it to that application. If you're having trouble narrowing your topic, finding peer reviewed
sources or accessing full text, reach out to the library. We can help you refine your search
strategy and locate the best materials for your assignment. The ATLA religion database is one of
the best tools available for theological and religious research. Start with keywords, use
filters to refine your results and always look for peer reviewed sources. And as always, we're here
to help. Happy researching.